<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
     PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
     "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:jsp="http://java.sun.com/JSP/Page"
      xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
      xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
      xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html">
<body>

<f:view>

    <ui:composition template="../main-template.xhtml">

        <!-- Mandatorty params -->
        <ui:param name="sectionTitle" value="Datasets"/>

        <ui:define name="contents">

            <h1>How to send feeback ?</h1>

            TODO: add mailing list here !

            

            <h1>Datasets currently available in IntAct</h1>

            <h2>AFCS (Alliance of Cellular Signalling)  DATASET</h2>

            The Alliance of Cellular Signalling (AFCS) consists of around 20 institutions which are engaged in a collaborative effort to investigate and understand cellular signalling networks (http://www.afcs.org/). The projects ultimate goal is to understand how signalling networks translate one or many stimuli into a cellular response.  The experimental approaches used in this effort are transcript analysis, nucleic acid-based inhibition of gene expression, cDNA construction and yeast 2-hybrid screens. The AFCS project conducts experiments under standardized conditions on two chosen cell types mouse B lymphocytes and mouse cardiac myocytes. The AFCS makes all its data publically available through internet resources.

            The AfCS is utilizing high-throughput methods to detect protein-protein interactions between signaling molecules expressed in B cells and cardiac myocytes. The AfCS has arranged a collaboration with Myriad Genetics to perform large-scale yeast two-hybrid screens. IntAct acts as a data repository of protein-protein interaction data generated by the AFCS project. The current dataset is available for  download at ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/.

            The AFCS programme is funded by: * The National Institute of General Medical Sciences
            * The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases


            <h2>DISEASE DATASETS</h2>

            Datasets of disease relevant protein-protein interaction studies have  been curated by IntAct curators from peer reviewed literature. Currently IntAct offers datasets under the following headings: Alzheimers and Cancer. These, and future datasets, are a resource to biologists seeking to understand protein interaction networks and disease. The current datasets, Alzheimers and Cancer, are available for download at ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/.


            <h2>BIOCREATIVE dataset</h2>

            The Biocreative dataset is a large dataset of curated publications from the Journal of Biological Chemistry (2006) and Nature publishing house which were manually curated by IntAct curators. This dataset has been used in the recent BioCreative II (Critical Assessment of Information Extraction systems in Biology): Protein-Protein Interaction Task (http://biocreative.sourceforge.net/biocreative_2_ppi.html).  The protein-protein interaction task focused on the prediction of protein interactions from full text articles, which are represented in the Biocreative dataset.
            Among the main goals posed in this task were:

            * (1) Determine of the state of the art in extraction of protein-protein interaction;
            * (2) Produce of useful resources for training and testing protein interaction extraction systems;
            * (3) To learn which approaches are successful and practical;
            * (4) To monitor interesting new approaches;
            * (5) To provide the biology community with useful tools to extract protein-protein interactions from texts

            The results of the  BioCreative II Protein-Protein Interaction Task will be made available through a peer reviewed publication. The Biocreative dataset provided by IntAct is a resource for text mining development and testing and currently avaliable for download from ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/.


            <h2>CYANOBACTERIAL DATASET</h2>

            The Cyanobacteria dataset is a dataset of cyanobacterial protein-protein interaction data curated from peer reviewed publications, produced in collaboration with the Commissariat a l'energie Atomique, France (http://www.cea.fr/). The cyanobacteria dataset is available from ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/.


            <h2>MSD DATASET</h2>

            The MSD ( EBI Macromolecular Structure Database) is a the European project for the collection, management and distribution of data about macromolecular structures, derived in part from the Protein Data Bank (PDB) (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/msd/). IntAct has now incorporated a subset of the data from the MSD database and this dataset is available from ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/.

        </ui:define>

    </ui:composition>

</f:view>

</body>

</html>